In Kubernetes, Ingress and Ingress Controller work together to manage external access to services in your cluster, usually HTTP/HTTPS traffic.

1. Ingress
What it is:
An Ingress is a Kubernetes API object that defines rules for routing external HTTP(S) requests to services inside the cluster.

Purpose:
Instead of exposing every service with its own LoadBalancer or NodePort, you can use an Ingress to:

Route requests based on domain names (e.g., app1.example.com → Service A, app2.example.com → Service B)

Route requests based on URL paths (e.g., /api → API service, /app → frontend service)

Terminate SSL/TLS (HTTPS)

Apply rewrites or redirects

Example Ingress resource:

yaml
Copy
Edit
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  name: example-ingress
  annotations:
    nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/rewrite-target: /
spec:
  rules:
  - host: myapp.example.com
    http:
      paths:
      - path: /
        pathType: Prefix
        backend:
          service:
            name: my-service
            port:
              number: 80
2. Ingress Controller
What it is:
The Ingress resource is just a set of routing rules in Kubernetes — it does nothing by itself.
You need an Ingress Controller, which is an application running inside your cluster that:

Watches for Ingress resources

Configures the actual load balancing/routing (using NGINX, HAProxy, Traefik, Envoy, etc.)

Popular Ingress Controllers:

NGINX Ingress Controller (most common)

Traefik

HAProxy Ingress

Kong

AWS/GCP/Azure-specific Ingress controllers

How it works:

You deploy an Ingress Controller as a Kubernetes Deployment/DaemonSet.

It exposes itself (usually via a LoadBalancer or NodePort).

The controller watches the Kubernetes API for new or updated Ingress objects.

It updates its internal config to match the routing rules in those Ingress objects.

Requests coming into the controller are routed to the correct service.

Flow Example
pgsql
Copy
Edit
User → (DNS resolves to Ingress Controller’s external IP) → Ingress Controller (NGINX) → Kubernetes Service → Pod
✅ Key difference:

Ingress = Rules for routing.

Ingress Controller = The actual traffic router/load balancer that enforces those rules.






